we can access instance method.

to develope  100 building
first you have to make plan
now you can make any number of buildings.


refrence variable 
s1 = student('priti',100)
 s1 is refrence variable and student('priti',100 is object

one object have multiple refrence variable.means multiple refrecne variable can point to same object.

self variable

class student :
     def __init__(self):
          print(id(self))
s = student()
print(id(s))


implicit variable provided by PVM

Write a program that justify that object reference and self variable both pointing to current object.

1.here reference variable and self both are pointing to current object. so s and self both pointiong to same object.

2.so outside of the class we can access current object using refrence variable and inside the class we can access using self variable.

3.for every instance method and constructor first argument should be self.

4.PVM is responsible to provide value of self argument.we are not required to provide explicitly.

5.by using self we can declare instane variable and instance method.

6. eno and self.eno  here eno is local variable and self.enao is current object variable.

7.yo can creat a instance variable inside a constructor only.

8.whatever you are passing to constructor and instance method it is considered as self by PVM.Instead of self we can use any name but recommended to use self.


constructor :

__init__() :
special method
1.the name should be always : __init__():
2.whwnever we creating object constructor will be executed automatically.we are not required to call explicitly.
3. The main objective : to declare and initialize instance variable
4. For every object constructor will be executed only once.
5.Every constructor have atleast one argument that is self.
6.special method
7.If you do not provide any constructor python will provide default constructor. 


















classs 
   name
   no
   add



s1    s2    s3